# Programming Assignment 2 : Testing Unateness of Primary Outputs

Problem description is on this [**README**](https://github.com/NTU-ALComLab/LSV-PA/blob/master/lsv/pa2/README.md)

## Implementation

For each primary output, it can be treated as a single output function with respect to its supports. To derive the unate information for each primary output in terms of all primary inputs, we can use SAT solver to prove the unate property by finding a counter example. 

We say that a primary output _f_ is _positive unate_ in terms of a primary input _x_ if its function _F_ (encoded by the AIG) satisfies _F(...,x=0,...) &rarr; F(...,x=1,...)_. The counter example will be _F(...,x=0,...) > F(...,x=1,...)_, that is, _F(...,x=0,...)==1 and F(...,x=1,...)==0_ for a Boolean function _F_. Similarly, negative unate can be proved by this method.

The derivation steps are described as following : 

1. Create fanin cones for each PO by `Abc_NtkCreateCone`, and obtain an AIG circuit (`Aig_Man_t`) from each cone (`Abc_Ntk_t`) by `Abc_NtkToDar`

2. Derive a CNF formula (`Cnf_Dat_t`) of an AIG circuit by `Cnf_Derive`, and create a fresh copy by `Cnf_DataDup` and `Cnf_DataLift`

3. Create an empty SAT solver by `sat_solver_new`, and takes a CNF formula by `Cnf_DataWriteIntoSolverInt`

4. Create a specified number of variables by `sat_solver_setnvars`, and add clauses to assert the equivalence between two variables by `sat_solver_add_buffer_enable`

5. For each PI, if it's not a support of the PO, then we push it into `Vec_posUnate` and `Vec_negUnate` directly. Otherwise, we do SAT solving for positive unate with _x=0 then F=1, and x=1 then F=0_. If the result is UNSAT, then the PI is positive unate. Similarly, negative unate can be proved by this method. Moreover, the PI is binate if neither positive unate nor negative unate.

## Discussion

1. Can your implementation solve the remaining 7 test cases (possibly with a longer time limit)?

-   This implementation cannot solve the remaining 7 test cases within 300 seconds.

2. How does your implementation compared to the BDD-based command `print_unate` in ABC?

-   The execution time of `lsv_print_pounate` can be calculated by Linux command `time` as `time ./abc <abc.script`.

| Benchmark name | Inputs | Outputs | print_unate (seconds) | lsv_print_pounate (seconds) |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | 
| Round-robin arbiter | 256 | 129 | 6.62 | 6.43 | 
| Alu control unit | 7 | 26 | 0.01 | 0.84 |
| Coding-cavlc | 10 | 11 | 0.01 | 0.74 |
| Decoder | 8 | 256 | 0.01 | 0.17 |
| i2c controller | 147 | 142 | 0.02 | 0.172 |
| int to float converter | 11 | 7 | 0.01 | 0.068 |
| Memory controller | 1204 | 1231 | 20.13 | 200.954 |
| Priority encoder | 128 | 8 | 0.04 | 0.191 |
| Lookahead XY router | 60 | 30 | 0.01 | 0.094 |
| Adder | 256 | 129 | 0.23 | 3.865 | 
| Barrel shifter | 135 | 128 | 25.97 | 3.264 |
| Max | 512 | 130 | Time Out | 70.208 |
| Sine | 24 | 25 | Time Out | 15.224 |

3. What are the differences between random control and arithmetic circuits? Which category is more challenging?

-   *Random Control Benchmarks* : The benchmarks include various types of controllers, arbiters, routers, converters, decoders, voters and random functions, mapped into simple gates from their behavioral descriptions.

-   *Arithmetic Benchmarks* : The benchmarks are obtained by an automated mapping of arithmetic computational algorithms into basic logic gates. Examples are square-root, divisor, multipliers, adder, etc; they come in different bit-widths to provide diversity in the implementation complexity.

-   Generally, Arithmetic Benchmarks are more challenging than Random Control Benchmarks, since the implementation of Arithmetic Benchmarks is to test the ability of optimization tools. 
